js-articles.md, before:

# JS articles

## Common

- [ ] [JavaScript. The Core: 2nd Edition](http://dmitrysoshnikov.com/ecmascript/javascript-the-core-2nd-edition/) - [#js #toread]
- [ ] [ES6 In Depth: Destructuring](https://hacks.mozilla.org/2015/05/es6-in-depth-destructuring/) - [#es6 #toread]
- [ ] [Algebraic JavaScript Specification (@fantasyland)](https://github.com/fantasyland/fantasy-land) - [#fp #patterns #toread]
- [x] [One-Way Data Binding in VanillaJs](https://jack.ofspades.com/frameworkless-javascript-part-3-one-way-data-binding/) - [#proxy #es6 #vanilla]
- [x] [Поле загрузки файлов, которое мы заслужили](https://habr.com/post/423035/) - [#file #upload #dnd #guide]

## React

- [ ] [Simple React Patterns](https://lucasmreis.github.io/blog/simple-react-patterns/) - Dealing With Side-Effects In React [#react #patterns #toread]
- [ ] [Анализ производительности React 16 приложений с помощью инструментов разработчика Chrome](https://habrahabr.ru/company/ruvds/blog/343888/) - [#react #debug #chrome #performance #toread]
- [x] [How to Use Storybook in a React Project](https://blog.bam.tech/developper-news/use-storybook-react-project) - [#react #storybook #snapshot #testing #styleguide]
- [x] [Where to put state scheme](https://kentcdodds.com/static/f14c2d3af9a01a178dd70ab1e2449180/a6d66/where-to-put-state.png) - [#react #state #context]
- [x] [Myths about useEffect](https://epicreact.dev/myths-about-useeffect/) - [#react #hooks #guide]
- [x] [React composition example](https://epicreact.dev/one-react-mistake-thats-slowing-you-down/) - [#react #patterns]

## State management

- [x] [Application State Management with React](https://kentcdodds.com/blog/application-state-management-with-react) - [#react #state #context #hooks]
- [x] [How to use React Context effectively](https://kentcdodds.com/blog/how-to-use-react-context-effectively) - [#react #state #context #hooks]
- [x] [Infinitely Better UIs with Finite Automata](http://slides.com/davidkhourshid/finite-state-machines) - [#state #machine #finite-state]

## Node

- [ ] [Знай свой инструмент: Event Loop в libuv](https://habrahabr.ru/post/336498/.com) - [#node #event-loop #toread]
- [x] [The 80/20 Guide to Async/Await in Node.js](http://thecodebarbarian.com/80-20-guide-to-async-await-in-node.js) - [#node #async #await]
- [x] [Common Async/Await Design Patterns in Node.js](http://thecodebarbarian.com/common-async-await-design-patterns-in-node.js.html) - [#node #async #await #patterns]
- [x] [The 80/20 Guide to Express Error Handling](http://thecodebarbarian.com/80-20-guide-to-express-error-handling.html) - [#node #express #error-handling #async #await #catch]
- [x] [Using Async/Await with Mocha, Express, and Mongoose](http://thecodebarbarian.com/using-async-await-with-mocha-express-and-mongoose.html) - [#async #await #mocha]
- [ ] [Using Ramda as a Dependency Injector](http://thecodebarbarian.com/using-ramda-as-a-dependency-injector) - [#node #ramda #fp #di #toread]
- [ ] [Building REST APIs with Observables](http://thecodebarbarian.com/rest-apis-with-observables.html) - [#node #observable #rxjs #toread]
- [x] [Node.js Streams: Everything you need to know](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/node-js-streams-everything-you-need-to-know-c9141306be93/) - [#node #streams]

## Other

- [x] [LEARN HOW HTTP COOKIES WORK](https://flaviocopes.com/cookies) - [#cookie #guide]
- [x] [A GUIDE TO JAVASCRIPT REGULAR EXPRESSIONS](https://flaviocopes.com/javascript-regular-expressions/) - [#regexp #guide]
- [ ] [Regexps guide](https://developer.mozilla.org/ru/docs/Web/JavaScript/Guide/Regular_Expressions) - [#regexp #guide]
- [ ] [Debugging JavaScript in Chrome DevTools](https://developers.google.com/web/tools/chrome-devtools/javascript/) - [#debug #chrome #toread]

## Archive

### Redux

- [x] [С 0 до 1. Разбираемся с Redux](https://habrahabr.ru/post/269831/) - [#redux]
- [x] [Redux modules and code-splitting](http://nicolasgallagher.com/redux-modules-and-code-splitting/) - [#redux #async #toread]
<!-- * [ ] []() - [# #toread] -->

### Webpack

- [x] [Webpack — The Confusing Parts](https://medium.com/@rajaraodv/webpack-the-confusing-parts-58712f8fcad9) - [#webpack #guide]
- [x] [Внутреннее устройство и оптимизация бандла webpack](https://habrahabr.ru/company/jugru/blog/342842/.com) - [#webpack #optimization #performance]
- [x] [Keep webpack Fast: A Field Guide for Better Build Performance](https://slack.engineering/keep-webpack-fast-a-field-guide-for-better-build-performance-f56a5995e8f1) - [#webpack #optimization #performance]

Commit message:

js: add react perf articles

js-articles.md, after:

# JS articles

## Common

- [ ] [JavaScript. The Core: 2nd Edition](http://dmitrysoshnikov.com/ecmascript/javascript-the-core-2nd-edition/) - [#js #toread]
- [ ] [ES6 In Depth: Destructuring](https://hacks.mozilla.org/2015/05/es6-in-depth-destructuring/) - [#es6 #toread]
- [ ] [Algebraic JavaScript Specification (@fantasyland)](https://github.com/fantasyland/fantasy-land) - [#fp #patterns #toread]
- [x] [One-Way Data Binding in VanillaJs](https://jack.ofspades.com/frameworkless-javascript-part-3-one-way-data-binding/) - [#proxy #es6 #vanilla]
- [x] [Поле загрузки файлов, которое мы заслужили](https://habr.com/post/423035/) - [#file #upload #dnd #guide]

## React

- [ ] [Simple React Patterns](https://lucasmreis.github.io/blog/simple-react-patterns/) - Dealing With Side-Effects In React [#react #patterns #toread]
- [ ] [Анализ производительности React 16 приложений с помощью инструментов разработчика Chrome](https://habrahabr.ru/company/ruvds/blog/343888/) - [#react #debug #chrome #performance #toread]
- [x] [How to Use Storybook in a React Project](https://blog.bam.tech/developper-news/use-storybook-react-project) - [#react #storybook #snapshot #testing #styleguide]
- [x] [Where to put state scheme](https://kentcdodds.com/static/f14c2d3af9a01a178dd70ab1e2449180/a6d66/where-to-put-state.png) - [#react #state #context]
- [x] [Myths about useEffect](https://epicreact.dev/myths-about-useeffect/) - [#react #hooks #guide]
- [x] [React composition example](https://epicreact.dev/one-react-mistake-thats-slowing-you-down/) - [#react #patterns]

## React Performance

- [x] [React, Inline Functions, and Performance](https://medium.com/@ryanflorence/react-inline-functions-and-performance-bdff784f5578) [#react #perf]
- [x] [When to useMemo and useCallback](https://kentcdodds.com/blog/usememo-and-usecallback) - [#react #perf]
- [x] [Fix the slow render before you fix the re-render](https://kentcdodds.com/blog/fix-the-slow-render-before-you-fix-the-re-render) - [#react #perf]

## State management

- [x] [Application State Management with React](https://kentcdodds.com/blog/application-state-management-with-react) - [#react #state #context #hooks]
- [x] [How to use React Context effectively](https://kentcdodds.com/blog/how-to-use-react-context-effectively) - [#react #state #context #hooks]
- [x] [Infinitely Better UIs with Finite Automata](http://slides.com/davidkhourshid/finite-state-machines) - [#state #machine #finite-state]

## Node

- [ ] [Знай свой инструмент: Event Loop в libuv](https://habrahabr.ru/post/336498/.com) - [#node #event-loop #toread]
- [x] [The 80/20 Guide to Async/Await in Node.js](http://thecodebarbarian.com/80-20-guide-to-async-await-in-node.js) - [#node #async #await]
- [x] [Common Async/Await Design Patterns in Node.js](http://thecodebarbarian.com/common-async-await-design-patterns-in-node.js.html) - [#node #async #await #patterns]
- [x] [The 80/20 Guide to Express Error Handling](http://thecodebarbarian.com/80-20-guide-to-express-error-handling.html) - [#node #express #error-handling #async #await #catch]
- [x] [Using Async/Await with Mocha, Express, and Mongoose](http://thecodebarbarian.com/using-async-await-with-mocha-express-and-mongoose.html) - [#async #await #mocha]
- [ ] [Using Ramda as a Dependency Injector](http://thecodebarbarian.com/using-ramda-as-a-dependency-injector) - [#node #ramda #fp #di #toread]
- [ ] [Building REST APIs with Observables](http://thecodebarbarian.com/rest-apis-with-observables.html) - [#node #observable #rxjs #toread]
- [x] [Node.js Streams: Everything you need to know](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/node-js-streams-everything-you-need-to-know-c9141306be93/) - [#node #streams]

## Other

- [x] [LEARN HOW HTTP COOKIES WORK](https://flaviocopes.com/cookies) - [#cookie #guide]
- [x] [A GUIDE TO JAVASCRIPT REGULAR EXPRESSIONS](https://flaviocopes.com/javascript-regular-expressions/) - [#regexp #guide]
- [ ] [Regexps guide](https://developer.mozilla.org/ru/docs/Web/JavaScript/Guide/Regular_Expressions) - [#regexp #guide]
- [ ] [Debugging JavaScript in Chrome DevTools](https://developers.google.com/web/tools/chrome-devtools/javascript/) - [#debug #chrome #toread]

## Archive

### Redux

- [x] [С 0 до 1. Разбираемся с Redux](https://habrahabr.ru/post/269831/) - [#redux]
- [x] [Redux modules and code-splitting](http://nicolasgallagher.com/redux-modules-and-code-splitting/) - [#redux #async #toread]
<!-- * [ ] []() - [# #toread] -->

### Webpack

- [x] [Webpack — The Confusing Parts](https://medium.com/@rajaraodv/webpack-the-confusing-parts-58712f8fcad9) - [#webpack #guide]
- [x] [Внутреннее устройство и оптимизация бандла webpack](https://habrahabr.ru/company/jugru/blog/342842/.com) - [#webpack #optimization #performance]
- [x] [Keep webpack Fast: A Field Guide for Better Build Performance](https://slack.engineering/keep-webpack-fast-a-field-guide-for-better-build-performance-f56a5995e8f1) - [#webpack #optimization #performance]
